New in Chrome 89 (#483)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/blog/new-in-chrome-89/index.md

  loophole a few developers used to skirt the PWA installability checks.
  Web Share, and Web Share Target arrive on the desktop. And there's plenty
  more!
layout: 'layouts/blog-post.njk'
date: 2021-03-02
authors:
  - petelepage
hero: 'image/0g2WvpbGRGdVs0aAPc6ObG7gkud2/st3dNRCY5FpDmmZXJ8ZG.jpg'
alt: >
  New in Chrome hero logo
tags:
  - new-in-chrome
  - chrome-89
---

Chrome 89 is starting to roll out to stable now.

{% YouTube id='O-gv6zLZHKw' %}

Here's what you need to know:

* [WebHID, WebNFC, and Web Serial](#hardware) have graduated from their
  origin trials and are now available in stable.
* We're closing a loophole a few developers used to skirt the
  [PWA installability checks](#installability).
* [Web Share, and Web Share Target](#webshare) arrive on the desktop.
* And, there's [plenty more](#more).

I'm [Pete LePage](https://twitter.com/petele), working, and shooting
from home, let's dive in and see what's new for developers in Chrome 89!

## WebHID, WebNFC, and Web Serial {: #hardware }

I'm really excited about WebHID, WebNFC, and Web Serial. They open up new
scenarios for users that were never possible before, interacting with real
world hardware.

> It allows makers to connect to fun, quirky hardware, video conferencing apps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They allows makers to connect to fun, quirky hardware, video conferencing apps
```

Reviewer: I realize this is what you said in the video, but referring to a list of features with a singular pronoun has a high chance causing confusion.

to use the dedicated telephony buttons on specialized speakers. Or any number
of other use cases.

{% Video className="float-right", autoplay="true", muted="true", loop="true", src="video/0g2WvpbGRGdVs0aAPc6ObG7gkud2/g8VCbIMljnxuemDFxl99.mp4" %}

Using Web Serial, and [about 60 lines of code][pico-code],
[@AndreBan][andre-tweet] created a [page][andre-page] that can interact with
the MicroPython REPL on a [Raspberry Pi Pico][rpi-pico]. Web Serial is also
used by Espruino in their [web based IDE][espruino-ide].

> At CDS last year, Francois wrote a fun, memory-style game using Web NFC.

Reviewer: Actually it was 2019.

Author: ```suggestion
At CDS 2019, Francois wrote a fun, memory-style game using Web NFC.
```

You had to tap the phone to the right card, in the right order.

<div style="clear:both;"></div>

{% Img src="image/0g2WvpbGRGdVs0aAPc6ObG7gkud2/VAuLti7I9ZQCwLUEWF5Y.png", className="float-right", alt="StreamDeck with Daft Punk Drum Pad", width="800", height="536" %}

And my favorite, [@bramus][bramus-tweet] used WebHID to connect to a
StreamDeck, building a [Daft Punk drum pad][bramus-demo]. If you don't have
a StreamDeck, check out his [demo video][bramus-demo-video] on YouTube, and
check out the [code on GitHub][bramus-code].

> Whether it's your site, that interacts with your hardware, or your hardware

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whether it's your site that interacts with your hardware, or your hardware
```

that can interact with lots of sites, users win because they don't need to
install special drivers, or software.

You can learn more about some of the devices you can connect to at
[web.dev/devices](https://web.dev/devices/), or check out the getting started
guides for [WebHID](https://web.dev/hid/), [WebNFC](https://web.dev/nfc/),
and [Web Serial](https://web.dev/serial/).

## PWA installability criteria changes {: #installability }

Offline support has been a key part of the Progressive Web App criteria for

> installability since the beginning. Like any other installed app, users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
installability since the beginning. As with other installed app, users
```

Reviewer: I know this looks like the old like/as confusion. Actually what you have is a dangling modifier that makes it sound like a user is an installed app.

> expect it to work reliably, it should be fast, and, they should never see

Reviewer: ```suggestion
expect it to work reliably. It should be fast, and, they should never see
```

the offline dino!

Later this year, we plan to close a loophole that allowed a few sites to
pass the installability criteria, without an offline experience. **If your

> PWA already has an offline experience, you're all set, there's no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PWA already has an offline experience, you're all set. There's no
```

action required, but, if you don't, it's time to add one!**

Starting in Chrome 89, if your PWA doesn't provide a valid response when

> offline, you'll see a warning DevTools under the Issues tab, and Lighthouse

Reviewer: ```suggestion
offline, you'll see a warning in DevTools under the Issues tab, and Lighthouse
```

you should provide as much of your experience as possible. But, at a minimum,
it can be as simple as an [offline fallback page][offline-fallback-page].

You can find more details about the change, and why we're making it in
[Improving Progressive Web App offline support detection](/blog/improved-pwa-offline-detection/).

If you're not sure where to get started, check out [Workbox][workbox]. It has
a set of libraries that can power a production-ready service worker for your
PWA. Or, for a simple offline fallback page, the article
[Create an offline fallback page][offline-fallback-page] has all the code you
need, and you can copy and paste directly in to your site.

## Web Share and Web Share Target for Desktop {: #webshare }

{% Video className="float-right", autoplay="true", muted="true", loop="true", src=["video/0g2WvpbGRGdVs0aAPc6ObG7gkud2/0vmJ4uVRmhkufMBsNrEO.webm","video/0g2WvpbGRGdVs0aAPc6ObG7gkud2/8rZz40MCN1qTifH2FHqG.mp4"] %}

If your site allows users to create, edit, or interact with files, you should
be using the Web Share and Web Share Target APIs. These APIs have been
available on mobile for some time but are now supported on Chrome OS and
Windows.

> Web Share makes it possible for users to send files, or data to other

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Web Share makes it possible for users to send files or data to other
```

installed apps on their device, for example, sharing a photo from Google
Photos to Twitter.

<div style="clear:both;"></div>

```js
async function share(title, text, url) {
  try {
    await navigator.share({title, text, url});
    return true;
  } catch (ex) {
    console.error('Share failed', ex);
    return false;
  }
}
```

> To register as a target, so other apps can share files or data with you,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To register as a target so other apps can share files or data with you,
```

installable PWAs.

<br style="clear:both;">

And, if you've used a Trusted Web Activity to make your PWA available in the
Play Store for Chrome OS, you can sign up for the
[Digital Goods API origin trial](/blog/new-in-chrome-88/#play-billing).

## Further reading

This covers only some of the key highlights. Check the links below for
additional changes in Chrome 89.

* [What's new in Chrome DevTools (89)](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2021/01/devtools)
* [Chrome 89 deprecations & removals](/blog/deps-rems-89/)
* [ChromeStatus.com updates for Chrome 88](https://www.chromestatus.com/features#milestone%3D89)
* [What's new in JavaScript in Chrome 88](https://v8.dev/blog/v8-release-89)
* [Chromium source repository change list](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+log/88.0.4324.98..89.0.4389.75)

## Subscribe

Want to stay up to date with our videos, then [subscribe](https://goo.gl/6FP1a5)
to our [Chrome Developers YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/user/ChromeDevelopers/),
and you'll get an email notification whenever we launch a new video.

I'm Pete LePage, and as soon as Chrome 90 is released, I'll be right here to

> tell you -- what's new in Chrome!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tell you what's new in Chrome!
```
